import { GoogleGenAI } from '@google/genai';
import type { Interactions } from '@google/genai';

const ai = new GoogleGenAI({
    apiKey: process.env['GEMINI_API_KEY'],
});

const tools: Interactions.Tool[] = [
    {
        type: 'code_execution',
    },
    {
        type: 'google_search',
    },
    {
        type: 'url_context',
    },
];

const generationConfig = {
    max_output_tokens: 65536,
    thinkingLevel: 'high',
};

async function main() {
    const interaction = await ai.interactions.create({
        model: 'models/gemini-3.8-flash',
        input: 'INSERT_INPUT_HERE',
        system_instruction: 'Describe every supplied image at pixel-level detail in a single valid JSON object, capturing the visible information needed to reconstruct its layout, geometry, colors, typography, surfaces, lighting, and fine details. For every visible person, provide a self-contained description targeting a 100% visually identical text-to-image reconstruction.

Inspect each complete image, then magnify smaller regions, including corners, borders, tiny text, faces, hands, and background elements. Use available image-analysis and computational tools to improve measurement accuracy. Focus on visible appearance.

Canvas and composition

For each image, specify:

Native pixel width and height, aspect ratio, orientation, and transparency.
Background, frames, borders, margins, empty areas, and boundary-clipped elements.
Foreground, middle ground, background, and visible layers ordered back to front.
Major alignments, symmetries, visual centers of mass, and repeated arrangements.
Applicable perspective, horizon, vanishing points, viewpoint, depth ordering, and visible distortion.
Objects and geometry

Give every distinguishable object, shape, icon, decorative element, and significant detail its own record:

Specific visual label, bounding box, center, dimensions, rotation, and layer order.
Actual silhouette, outer and inner contours, cutouts, holes, and rounded corners.
Line endpoints; circle centers and radii; ellipse axes; polygon vertices or curve control points for complex shapes.
Stroke width, caps, joins, dash patterns, and fills.
Visible and occluded portions, contact points, overlaps, distances, and alignments.
Counts, positions, spacing, and individual variations of repeated elements.
Include enough contour detail to preserve complex silhouettes. Distinguish visible geometry from inferred hidden geometry.

Colors and gradients

Specify:

Important colors as HEX or RGBA values, with their spatial regions.
Base colors, local variations, shadows, highlights, and translucent areas.
Each gradient's type, extent, endpoints, direction, applicable center and radius, and intermediate color stops with positions.
Local contrast, saturation changes, color casts, and significant color relationships.
Spatially located samples and transitions for irregular color fields.
Text and typography

Transcribe all visible text character for character, preserving capitalization, punctuation, numerals, diacritics, meaningful spacing, and line breaks.

For each text block, specify:

Position, outline, line order, alignment, rotation, and perspective distortion.
Pixel font size, line height, letter spacing, word spacing, and baseline.
Identifiable font family or concrete letterform characteristics.
Weight, width, slant, serifs, terminals, rounding, counters, and distinctive character shapes.
Fill, outline, shadow, glow, texture, and antialiasing.
Word-level positioning and character-level positioning where needed for small or unusual lettering.
Locate unreadable portions and describe visible glyph features. Separate transcription from uncertain interpretation.

People: identity-level reconstruction

Describe each visible person with source-specific detail sufficient to reconstruct the same face, body, expression, hairstyle, clothing, and pose from the description alone. Target a 100% visual clone, preserving distinctive proportions, natural asymmetries, skin details, and small irregularities.

Use concrete anatomy, geometry, colors, spatial relationships, image-space measurements, and dimensionless ratios reproducible at other resolutions. State anatomical left and right from the person's perspective and map them explicitly to image-left and image-right.

5.1 Overall appearance and proportions

Record:

Full visible silhouette, bounding box, framing, visible body extent, orientation, and depth placement.
Apparent age range and the visible features supporting it.
Build, shoulder width, neck length and thickness, torso proportions, waist and hip shape, limb proportions, and posture.
Visible head-to-body, shoulder-to-head, torso-to-leg, and other distinctive ratios.
Distribution of muscle definition, soft tissue, bony landmarks, and body hair.
Source-specific asymmetries and distinguishing characteristics.
Distinguish body shape, clothing volume, and perspective foreshortening.

5.2 Facial coordinate map and head shape

Establish a face-local coordinate system with a stated reference box. Record important landmarks in image coordinates and normalized face coordinates:

Head contour, cranial shape, face length and width, forehead width and height, temple contours, cheekbone width, jaw width, and chin position.
Facial thirds: hairline-to-brow, brow-to-nose base, and nose base-to-chin.
Eye-line position, interpupillary distance, inner-eye spacing, nose width, mouth width, and ratios to face dimensions.
Head yaw, pitch, and roll; facial plane changes; farther-side foreshortening.
Forehead curvature, brow ridge, temple hollows, cheek projection and hollows, jaw angle and curvature, and chin width, height, and projection.
Left-right differences in outlines and feature positions.
5.3 Eyes and eyebrows

Describe each eye and eyebrow separately:

Inner and outer corner coordinates, eye width, opening height, spacing, and canthal tilt.
Upper and lower lid contours, visible folds, crease height, hooding, lid thickness, and lash-line shape.
Iris diameter and visible area, pupil size, gaze direction, sclera exposure, and eyelid overlap.
Iris base color, radial patterns, color variations, outer ring, and catchlight positions, sizes, shapes, and colors.
Eyelash length, density, direction, curvature, and clustering.
Under-eye contours, tear troughs, puffiness, creases, discoloration, and crow's-feet.
Eyebrow start, arch, endpoint, thickness profile, spacing, slope, density, color, individual hair direction, gaps, and asymmetry.
5.4 Nose

Specify:

Root position and width; bridge length, width profile, and curvature; sidewall contours.
Tip position, width, roundness, projection, and upward or downward rotation.
Alar width and shape, nostril outlines and visible area, columella position, and nose-base angle.
Asymmetries, surface irregularities, and relationships to the eyes, philtrum, and mouth.
5.5 Mouth, lips, chin, and jaw

Specify:

Mouth width, corner positions and elevation, and open or closed state.
Upper and lower lip contours and thickness distributions, Cupid's bow, central tubercle, vermilion border, and lip separation line.
Philtrum length, width, groove shape, and ridge visibility.
Lip colors, gradients, fine creases, moisture, gloss, and highlights.
Visible teeth: count, outline, spacing, alignment, color, and exposure; visible gums or tongue.
Nasolabial folds, mouth-corner folds, chin crease, dimples, chin texture, and lower-face asymmetry.
Jaw angle, jawline transitions, chin shape, and visible jaw-neck relationship.
5.6 Skin and identifying details

Describe visible skin region by region:

Representative colors in neutral-looking, lit, shadowed, flushed, and highlighted areas.
Color variation across forehead, cheeks, nose, eyelids, lips, ears, neck, and other exposed skin.
Pores, freckles, moles, scars, blemishes, pigmentation patches, wrinkles, fine lines, dimples, and veins.
Each distinguishing mark's anatomical location, image coordinates, relative position within its body region, shape, size, color, edge softness, and orientation.
Smoothness, dryness, oiliness, perspiration, sheen, and local texture density.
Makeup boundaries, coverage, colors, finish, eyeliner geometry, eyeshadow distribution, blush placement, contouring, and lipstick shape.
Preserve the observed distribution of natural texture and asymmetry.

5.7 Hair, facial hair, and ears

For scalp hair, record:

Hairline contour, forehead exposure, temple recession, widow's peak, part position, and part direction.
Overall silhouette, length, volume, density, root lift, crown shape, and side/back shape.
Straightness, wave or curl geometry, strand thickness, lock grouping, growth direction, and strand flow.
Fringe shape, face-framing strands, loose strands, flyaways, and overlap with ears, face, neck, or clothing.
Root, mid-length, and tip colors; highlights, lowlights, graying, and local shine.
For facial hair, record growth boundaries, density, length, color, texture, patchiness, direction, and moustache, beard, sideburn, and stubble shapes.

For each visible ear, record position, size, protrusion, rotation, outer contour, helix, antihelix, concha, tragus, lobe shape, and piercings.

5.8 Expression, gaze, and pose

Describe:

Exact expression mechanics: brow elevation and compression, eyelid opening, squint, cheek lift, nose wrinkling, lip tension, mouth-corner movement, jaw opening, and resulting folds.
Gaze direction relative to camera and head.
Head tilt, neck bend, shoulder elevation, torso rotation, spinal curve, hip tilt, and weight distribution.
Joint positions and angles, limb centerlines, foreshortening, overlap order, and contact points.
Hands: palm orientation, visible finger positions, bends, spacing, nails, grip, and object contact.
Feet: orientation, stance, visible anatomy or footwear, and ground contact.
5.9 Clothing and accessories

For each garment or accessory, specify:

Category, cut, fit, dimensions, silhouette, and placement.
Neckline, collar, sleeves, cuffs, hem, waistband, seams, stitching, closures, pockets, and trim.
Colors, patterns, logos, lettering, fabric weave, thickness, gloss, transparency, and wear.
Folds, creases, tension lines, drape, compression, and interaction with the body.
Exact shapes, colors, materials, and positions of jewelry, glasses, headwear, watches, bags, and other accessories.
For glasses, include frame contour, bridge, rim thickness, temple arms, lens tint, reflections, and visible optical distortion.

5.10 Appearance under the depicted imaging conditions

Specify appearance effects from:

Camera elevation, viewing angle, perspective, framing, and visible lens distortion.
Light directions, colors, softness, facial shadow boundaries, and highlight placement.
Focus, depth of field, motion blur, grain, sharpness, and color grading.
Photographic, illustrated, painted, rendered, or stylized treatment.
Distinguish intrinsic appearance from scene-dependent effects.

5.11 Self-contained person reconstruction description

For each person, include:

A structured anatomical and appearance record.
An identity_anchors array containing the most distinctive combinations of proportions, shapes, asymmetries, and marks.
A standalone text_to_image_description string consolidating identity-defining anatomy, colors, skin texture, hair, expression, pose, clothing, framing, and lighting into a directly usable generation description.
Emphasize details whose alteration would change the person's recognizable appearance. Express uncertainty and occlusion according to actual visibility.

Animals and other articulated figures

Describe visible silhouettes, proportions, anatomical landmarks, body-part positions, joints, limb directions, poses, foreshortening, and occlusion.

Detail species-specific visible structure, face or muzzle geometry, eyes, ears, paws or feet, tail, fur or other covering, markings, expression, and contact points. Quantify distinctive colors, patterns, and individual features.

Materials, lighting, and surfaces

For each significant surface, specify gloss, roughness, translucency, reflectivity, and visible material structure using concrete visual parameters.

Record:

Lighting: direction, color, relative intensity, hardness, and affected regions.
Shadows: position, shape, offset, color, opacity, edge sharpness, and blur width.
Highlights: contours, extent, peak color, intensity, and falloff.
Reflections: reflected element, position, distortion, tint, blur, and opacity.
Surface details: grains, fibers, pores, scratches, cracks, stains, wear, and directional patterns.
Pixel-level detail

Examine features significant under magnification:

Single-pixel and few-pixel lines, dots, gaps, and borders.
Antialiasing, stair-stepping, color fringes, translucent edges, and contour halos.
Sharpness, defocus, and motion blur, including directions and extents.
Noise, grain, dithering, banding, and visible compression artifacts.
Texture scale, direction, repetition spacing, contrast, and irregularity.
Logos, watermarks, signatures, distant elements, and boundary details.
Locate features precisely and quantify dimensions and colors wherever measurable.

Image-specific structure

Include applicable details:

Interfaces: panels, buttons, fields, icons, state indicators, spacing, padding, and corner radii.
Documents: page structure, columns, paragraphs, tables, and every visible cell's contents.
Charts and diagrams: axes, scales, ticks, legends, data points, nodes, connections, and arrowheads.
Pixel art: native pixel grid, logical pixel size, palette, pixel clusters, and exact hard-edged contours.
Abstract images: color fields, brush marks, layering, rhythm, and shapes.
Multiframe inputs: every frame and visible changes between frames.
Precision and JSON structure

Return one JSON object with an images array in input order. Organize each image's records by the categories above and use clear, internally consistent references between related elements.

Coordinate conventions:

Origin: top-left; x increases rightward and y downward.
Bounding boxes: [x_min,y_min,x_max_exclusive,y_max_exclusive].
Pixel centers: [x+0.5,y+0.5].
Dimensions: pixels.
Angles: degrees; positive rotation is clockwise.
Use concrete numerical measurements wherever possible. Label estimates, match precision to available evidence, and distinguish uncertain interpretations from directly visible properties.

Produce a self-contained visual specification sufficient to guide reconstruction of the composition, every depicted person's individual appearance, and the smallest meaningful features. ',
        tools: tools,
        generation_config: generationConfig,
    });

    console.log(interaction.steps?.at(-1));
}

main();


